# System Design and Agile
This repository contains two folders, one that includes a document providing a retrospective of the agile process over the course of a project, and the other containing a system design document as well as design charts for a separate project. 

# Design
The project in the design folder centered around a driving education facility client that felt there was a void in driving education services. The client felt that many students were failing to pass their driving certification exams and wanted a system that could help facilitate driving education and ultimately help their users pass their examinations. The many features of the system included the ability for users to schedule in-car driving appointments, access course materials, and take practice examinations. On the administrative side, the system also included login functionality, access control, and automatic notifications regarding licensing updates. The folder in the repository contains a business document that was used to design the various components, objectives, and requirements that would be necessary to begin the process of developing an application for the client. The second document contains diagrams, such as class, sequence, and use-case diagrams, that all provide their respective representation of how the system might look graphically. 

Many of the non-functional, functional, and technical requirements were derived from the initial meeting interview with the client. Additionally, other parts of the functionality were implied based on what is the general standard for applications like this is, such as a login system. For example, the client stated they wanted security and backups to be handled by a cloud-based provider as they did not want to deal with the infrastructure needed to support these functionalities in addition to wanting the system to be portable. This naturally inclines the system to be one that is cloud-based. It is important to understand these requirements when designing for a user’s needs because they will ultimately be the ones most often interfacing with the system. The user needs to have the proper functionality they expect to be available to them in the most convenient and secure manner possible so that the desired goal of the system can be fulfilled.

# Agile
The Agile folder contains a document that outlines a sprint retrospective for a different project, but in general describes an overall summary of the various positions in a scrum framework, as well as how agile/scrum compares to the waterfall method.

Agile practices are a desirable choice for a number of reasons: for projects with vague and tenuous requirements, frequent changes or issues being anticipated during the development process, quick delivery of a working iteration being desired by the client, if there exists a client that wishes to give frequent feedback, or when teams are willing and able to work with significant autonomy. 

More traditional methods like waterfall are well suited for applications that can follow a linear process, like those that have robust requirements outlined from the start with no significant changes during the development process.

# Phases of Agile
Note that the process derives its strength from flexibility, not only during development but also when defining what the process actually is. This generally lends to the idea that not all organizations will or should implement agile in the exact same way. The emphasis is on how an organization interacts effectively to build an application, rather than focusing on specific tools. A quick summary of the basic, foundational Agile process is as follows. 
* Product Backlog: Product owner recieves input from clients/focus groups, as well as other technical or business requirements to develop a backlog of user stories which represent requirements in small chunks.
* Sprint Planning: The team meets and decides which stories from the backlog would be best suited for an upcoming fixed size sprint, which is usually between 1-4 weeks depending on the size and experience of the team. These stories are then placed in a sprint backlog, prioritized, and prepared to be integrated into the sprint phase.
* Sprint: Over the course of the sprint, an iteration of the product is built from the user stories that was chosen from the product backlog. The iterative nature of Agile prescribes a fast-paced delivery of a working product iteration, with additional iterations developed in future sprints. This means that at the end of each sprint, the idea is to have a product that could potentially be shipped for feedback or use. A hallmark of the scrum is a daily standup, which is facilitated by the scrum master. In these daily meetings, the teams check in to report their work and any issues they are facing, which can help guide the sprint towards a productive direction based on feedback/discussion between team members.
* Sprint Review: This is where the iteration of the application is sent to the product owner so that it may be reviewed and accepted as the final product for the sprint. While likely not the first time the product owner has viewed the application's state, it is where the final version of the current sprint iteration is accepted and the sprint is deemed complete. At this point, the product backlog is also reviewed, often by stake holders, product owners, or the members of the scrum team, to mark what items have been completed and what items might still remain for completion.
* Sprint Retrospective: The retrospective is where the team gets together to review and discuss the previous work done and how well the iteration turned out based on the planning going in. Members discuss the pitfalls and successes of the process in order to adjust their operating procedure going into forward, so that future sprints will work better for the team and the product's quality can be improved. The process then repeats for further iterations until an ultimate product is deemed complete.
